[6.5][.NET] Added application launcher sample code. (#1504)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/application/dotnet/guides/app-management/application-launcher.md

    ```csharp
    class Program : NUIApplication
    {
        private AppControl AppLauncher;

        //...
    }
    ```

8. The `OnCreate()` method calls `Initialize()` function before the main application loop starts:

    ```csharp
    protected override void OnCreate()
    {
        base.OnCreate();
        Initialize();
    }
    ```

9. The `Initialize()` method set up key listener, `AppControl` object, and the application background:

    ```csharp
    void Initialize()
    {
        var appWindow = Window.Instance;
        appWindow.KeyEvent += OnKeyEvent;

        AppLauncher = new AppControl();
        ImageView background = new ImageView(DirectoryInfo.Resource + "/images/bg.png");

        //Setting the background parameters so that it occupies the entire application window
        background.Size2D = new Size2D(appWindow.Size.Width, appWindow.Size.Height);
        background.Position2D = new Position2D(0, 0);
        appWindow.GetDefaultLayer().Add(background);
    }
    ```

> 10. In the next step, grid component for application icons is created. Grid spacing and columns number are defined in the [GridLayout](/application/dotnet/guides/nui/grid-layout.md) object. The `appGrid` component width and height is set to fill its parent:

Reviewer: \[GridLayout](/application/dotnet/guides/nui/grid-layout.md)

Would you please check if this URL is valid with the master branch?

dotnet/guides/nui/grid-layout.md is moved to dotnet/guides/user-interface/nui/grid-layout.md by https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1511.

Reviewer: My worrying point was also fixed.

        ResourceUrl = path,
    };

    this.Layout = new LinearLayout()
    {
        LinearAlignment = LinearLayout.Alignment.CenterHorizontal,
        LinearOrientation = LinearLayout.Orientation.Vertical
    };

    this.Add(Icon);
    this.Add(label);

    this.TouchEvent += OnTouchEvent;
}
```

**Figure: Application Icons**

![Application Icons](./media/application_launcher_icons.png)

6. `OnTouchEvent` reads state from the `TouchEventArgs`. If touch is in `PointStateType.Down` state, the application icon is resized. Otherwise, it returns to normal size and predefined event is invoked with the proper `AppId`:

```csharp
public bool OnTouchEvent(object sender, TouchEventArgs args)
{
    var state = args.Touch.GetState(0);

    switch (state)
    {
        case PointStateType.Down:
            Icon.Size2D = new Size2D((int)(OriginSize.Width * 1.1f), (int)(OriginSize.Height * 1.1f));
            break;
        case PointStateType.Finished:
            Icon.Size2D = OriginSize;
            ApplicationIconClicked.Invoke(this, new ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs(this.AppId));
            break;
        default:
            break;
    }

    return false;
}
```

> 7. The `Program` class derived from NUIApplication handles all necessary system events ([Application Lifecycle](./01_application_lifecycle.md)). The `AppLauncher` is created in `Initialize()` method and used in an icon touch handler:

Reviewer: Global. Would you please check the file names again? The links are broken. I also would  like to recommend you to fetch the latest version and rebase.

```csharp
void Initialize()
{
    var appWindow = Window.Instance;
    appWindow.KeyEvent += OnKeyEvent;

    AppLauncher = new AppControl();
    ImageView background = new ImageView(DirectoryInfo.Resource + "/images/bg.png");

    //Setting the background parameters so that it occupies the entire application window
    background.Size2D = new Size2D(appWindow.Size.Width, appWindow.Size.Height);
    background.Position2D = new Position2D(0, 0);
    appWindow.GetDefaultLayer().Add(background);
}
```

10. In the next step, grid component for application icons is created. Grid spacing and columns number are defined in the [GridLayout](/application/dotnet/guides/nui/grid-layout.md) object. The `appGrid` component width and height is set to fill its parent:

```csharp
View appGrid = new View()
{
    WidthResizePolicy = ResizePolicyType.FillToParent,
    HeightResizePolicy = ResizePolicyType.FillToParent,
    Layout = new GridLayout()
    {
        Columns = 8,
        GridOrientation = GridLayout.Orientation.Horizontal,
        RowSpacing = 35f,
        ColumnSpacing = 12f,
        Padding = new Extents(30, 30, 30, 30)
    }
};
```

> 11. The [PackageManager.GetPackages()](/package-manager.md) is used to obtain all installed packages. Each package may contain several applications. Hence, `pkg.GetApplications()` is used. `ApplicationInfo` object is used to filter apps that must be displayed. In this case, `NUIApplicationLauncher` app with no icon or app with `IsNoDisplay` parameter will not be inserted into `appGrid`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. The [PackageManager.GetPackages()](./package-manager.md) is used to obtain all installed packages. Each package may contain several applications. Hence, `pkg.GetApplications()` is used. `ApplicationInfo` object is used to filter apps that must be displayed. In this case, `NUIApplicationLauncher` app with no icon or app with `IsNoDisplay` parameter will not be inserted into `appGrid`:
```

Sorry for the confusion. To use the relative path, . is needed in the path.

```csharp
public void OnAppIconClicked(object sender, ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs args)
{
    AppLauncher.ApplicationId = args.AppId;
    AppLauncher.Operation = AppControlOperations.Default;
    AppControl.SendLaunchRequest(AppLauncher);
}
```

14. The following code shows how to implement `back` button clicked event. In this case application exits, but normally the launcher app doesn't call the `Exit()` API:

```csharp
public void OnKeyEvent(object sender, Window.KeyEventArgs args)
{
    Tizen.Log.Info(LogTag, args.Key.ToString());

    if (args.Key.State == Key.StateType.Down && (args.Key.KeyPressedName == "XF86Back" || args.Key.KeyPressedName == "Escape"))
    {
        Exit();
    }
}
```

15. The common main code of the NUI application:

```csharp
static void Main(string[] args)
{
    var app = new Program();
    app.Run(args);
}
```

For full source code of the example, see [here](./source-code/application-launcher.cs)

## Related information
* Dependencies

>   -   Tizen 4.0 and Higher

Reviewer: Would you please check the lowest supported version? Shouldn't it be Tizen 6.5?

> # The Application Launcher

Reviewer 2: Please avoid articles in headings, also my previous comment was to change this heading to title case it is not fixed.
Do you want to retain both A and L caps?

If not suggest to change to
# Application launcher

> This guide explains how to create a basic application launcher. The application launcher is a main application that normally starts after system boot. This app is commonly replaced in the platform adjustments process. It is easy to use the .NET APIs in the application launcher implementation.

Reviewer 2: Did not understand this sentence could you help understand
```suggestion
This app is commonly replaced in the platform adjustment process. 
```

> This guide explains how to create a basic application launcher. The application launcher is a main application that normally starts after system boot. This app is commonly replaced in the platform adjustments process. It is easy to use the .NET APIs in the application launcher implementation.

Reviewer 2: Did not understand this sentence could you help understand:
This app is commonly replaced in the platform adjustments process.

```suggestion
This guide explains how to create a basic application launcher. The application launcher is a main application that normally starts after system boot. This app is commonly replaced in the platform adjustment process. It is easy to use the .NET APIs in the application launcher implementation.
```

Author: When Tizen platform will be used by other developer in their platform, homescreen app is ofter replaced. I want to wirte something like this. Please let me know if my explanation is clear.

> This guide explains how to create a basic application launcher. The application launcher is a main application that normally start after system boot. This app is commonly replaced in the platform adjustments process. It is easy to use the .NET APIs in the application launcher implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to create a basic application launcher. The application launcher is a main application that normally starts after system boot. This app is commonly replaced in the platform adjustments process. It is easy to use the .NET APIs in the application launcher implementation.
```

> ## Application launcher functionalities

Reviewer 2: Recommend removing this title

> ## The Application Launcher functionalities

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Application launcher functionalities
```

Every application launcher must be able to:
 - List installed and runnable applications.
 - Run selected application by the user.

You can also implement advanced functionalities such as:
 - grouping installed applications into folders,
 <!-- TBD: when widgets viewer will be pushed unlock this line - [widgets viewer](./widgets_viewer.md), -->
 - removing applications,
 - rearrangement of icons,
 - viewing notifications,

## Prerequisites

To list the installed applications and launch them, the launcher app must have defined privileges in the project manifest file as:

**Snippet: Application launcher priviledges**
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
  <ui-application appid="NUIApplicationLauncher">
    <!-- Auto generated manifest properties -->
  </ui-application>
  <privileges>
    <privilege>http://tizen.org/privilege/packagemanager.info</privilege>
    <privilege>http://tizen.org/privilege/appmanager.launch</privilege>
  </privileges>
```

> ## Application launcher sample code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Managing app launcher
```

Reviewer 2: This entire section must be rewritten for consistent voice, tone and grammar.

> Following code snippet illustrates how to implement the simple application launcher using:

Reviewer 2: Is this an example specific to NUI, package Manager, TizenFX Appcontrol or does is generic step to app launcher that every developer must implement?

Author: This is related more to TizenFX API's but NUI is used as a main UI framework

 - [NUI](/application/dotnet/api/TizenFX/latest/api/Tizen.NUI.html) for the view implementation.
 - [Package MAnager](/application/dotnet/api/TizenFX/latest/api/Tizen.Applications.PackageManager.html) to gather installed applications,
- [TizenFX AppControl](/application/dotnet/api/TizenFX/latest/api/Tizen.Applications.AppControl.html) to launch an app on touch event

**Figure: NUI application launcher**

![Application launcher](./media/application_launcher_animation.gif)

> To use mentioned API's following namespaces have to be included:

Reviewer 2: Please see my comment above https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1504/files#r704121549
 If it is common to all app launcher then I would recommend moving namespaces to Prerequisites as second step.

Author: Generally it is not common for app launcher, because it is possible to implement application launcher using Xamarin.Forms or other libs, maybe even OpenTK. Generally in other guides prerequisites section is not related to code, but things you should do "before", so if it is possible I would like to don't move this section to "prerequisites" section

```csharp
using System;
using System.Collections.Generic;

using Tizen.Applications;

using Tizen.NUI;
using Tizen.NUI.BaseComponents;
```

> To group application launcher responsibilities three classes in the `NUIApplicationLauncher` namespace are defined which represents main application structure:

Reviewer 2: As commented earlier can these sections be either written as ordered steps or unordered steps so that there is content flow.

```csharp
namespace NUIApplicationLauncher
{
    //Each touch event needs additional data like application ID to launch application
    partial class ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs : EventArgs
    {
        //...
    }

    //Application Icon component with ImageView and Label. Also OnTouch Event is handler here.
    class ApplicationIcon : View
    {
        //...
    }

    //Main Application Code
    class Program : NUIApplication
    {
        //...
    }
}
```

> The event arguments derived class created to add an application id field. The application id is used by `AppControl` to launch clicked application:

Reviewer 2: Can this be changed like this?
```suggestion
Create the event arguments derived class to add an application id field. The application id is used by `AppControl` to launch the application:
```

```csharp
partial class ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs : EventArgs
    {
        public string AppId = "";

        public ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs(string id)
        {
            AppId = id;
        }
    }
```

> The `ApplicationIcon` class stores application id. The `Icon` component and `OriginSize` are used to resize `Icon` when it is in pressed state. The `ApplicationIconClicked` is invoked when touch changes its state to finished:

Reviewer 2: touch changes?
is it touchevent?

```suggestion
The `ApplicationIcon` class stores  the application id. The `Icon` component and `OriginSize` are used to resize `Icon` when it is in the pressed state. The `ApplicationIconClicked` is invoked when touch changes its state to finished:
```

```csharp
        public bool OnTouchEvent(object sender, TouchEventArgs args)
        {
            var state = args.Touch.GetState(0);

            switch (state)
            {
                case PointStateType.Down:
                    Icon.Size2D = new Size2D((int)(OriginSize.Width * 1.1f), (int)(OriginSize.Height * 1.1f));
                    break;
                case PointStateType.Finished:
                    Icon.Size2D = OriginSize;
                    ApplicationIconClicked.Invoke(this, new ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs(this.AppId));
                    break;
                default:
                    break;
            }

            return false;
        }
    }
```

The `Program` class derived from NUIApplication to handle all necessary system events ([Application Lifecycle](./01_application_lifecycle.md)). The `AppLauncher` is created in `Initialize()` method and used in an icon touch handler:

```csharp
class Program : NUIApplication
    {
        private AppControl AppLauncher;

        //...
    }

```

> The `OnCreate()` method implementation. It is responsible for call `Initialize()` method before main application loop starts:

Reviewer 2: Please rephrase this sentence for consistency

Author: How about: [Step number]. The `OnCreate()` method calls `Initialize()` function before the main loop starts. ?

                    ColumnSpacing = 12f,
                    Padding = new Extents(30, 30, 30, 30)
                }
            };
```
The [PackageManager.GetPackages()](/package-manager.md) is used to obtain all installed packages. Each package may contains several applications. Because of that `pkg.GetApplications()` is used. `ApplicationInfo` object is used to filter apps which should be displayed. In this case `NUIApplicationLauncher`, app with no icon or app with `IsNoDisplay` parameter will not be inserted into `appGrid`:

```csharp
            IEnumerable<Package> packageList = PackageManager.GetPackages();

            foreach (var pkg in packageList)
            {
                var list = pkg.GetApplications();

                foreach (var app in list)
                {
                    if (!app.IsNoDisplay && app.IconPath != null && app.Label != "NUIApplicationLauncher") {
                        var icon = new ApplicationIcon(app.Label, app.IconPath, new Size2D((), 139), app.ApplicationId);
                        icon.ApplicationIconClicked += OnAppIconClicked;
                        appGrid.Add(icon);
                    }
                }
            }
```

> Last step is to insert `appGrid` object in the application window:

Reviewer 2: There was no sequence prior to this, and there are more steps explained after this, so the word Last step is confusing.

Author: How about: [Step number]. After `appGrid` object creation it must be inserted in the application window. ?

```csharp
    appWindow.GetDefaultLayer().Add(appGrid);
```

Clicked event setups `AppLauncher` and pass it to [AppControl](/application/dotnet/api/TizenFX/latest/api/Tizen.Applications.AppControl.html) `SendLaunchRequest()` API. Now
selected applications starts:

```csharp
        public void OnAppIconClicked(object sender, ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs args)
        {
            AppLauncher.ApplicationId = args.AppId;
            AppLauncher.Operation = AppControlOperations.Default;
            AppControl.SendLaunchRequest(AppLauncher);
        }
```

> Common method to handle `back` button pressed event. In this case application exits, but normally the launcher app should don't call `Exit()` API:

Reviewer 2: Please recheck and correct this sentence

Author: How about: '[Step number]. The `back` button clicked event handler implementation. ?

```csharp
        public void OnKeyEvent(object sender, Window.KeyEventArgs args)
        {
            Tizen.Log.Info(LogTag, args.Key.ToString());

            if (args.Key.State == Key.StateType.Down && (args.Key.KeyPressedName == "XF86Back" || args.Key.KeyPressedName == "Escape"))
            {
                Exit();
            }
        }
```

The main code of the application:

```csharp
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            var app = new Program();
            app.Run(args);
        }
    }
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Related information is missing, kindly add that.

            {
                var list = pkg.GetApplications();

                foreach (var app in list)
                {
                    if (!app.IsNoDisplay && app.IconPath != null && app.Label != "NUIApplicationLauncher") {
                        var icon = new ApplicationIcon(app.Label, app.IconPath, new Size2D((), 139), app.ApplicationId);
                        icon.ApplicationIconClicked += OnAppIconClicked;
                        appGrid.Add(icon);
                    }
                }
            }
```
11. Last step is to insert `appGrid` object in the application window:

```csharp
    appWindow.GetDefaultLayer().Add(appGrid);
```

12. Clicked event setups `AppLauncher` and pass it to [AppControl](/application/dotnet/api/TizenFX/latest/api/Tizen.Applications.AppControl.html) `SendLaunchRequest()` API. Now selected applications starts:

```csharp
        public void OnAppIconClicked(object sender, ApplicationIconClickedEventArgs args)
        {
            AppLauncher.ApplicationId = args.AppId;
            AppLauncher.Operation = AppControlOperations.Default;
            AppControl.SendLaunchRequest(AppLauncher);
        }
```

> 13. Common method to handle `back` button pressed event. In this case application exits, but normally the launcher app should don't call `Exit()` API:

Author: You mean "Common method to handle `back` button pressed event. In this case application exits, but normally the launcher app should don't call `Exit()` API:" ? Your suggestion: "The back button clicked event handler implementation." is ok for me

        }
```

Common method to handle `back` button pressed event. In this case application exits, but normally the launcher app should don't call `Exit()` API.

```csharp
        public void OnKeyEvent(object sender, Window.KeyEventArgs args)
        {
            Tizen.Log.Info(LogTag, args.Key.ToString());

            if (args.Key.State == Key.StateType.Down && (args.Key.KeyPressedName == "XF86Back" || args.Key.KeyPressedName == "Escape"))
            {
                Exit();
            }
        }
```

The main code of the application.

```csharp
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            var app = new Program();
            app.Run(args);
        }
    }
```

> Full source code of example above is available [here](./source-code/application-launcher.cs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the complete source code of the example see [here](./source-code/application-launcher.cs)
```
